Colossians chapter 4 beginning verse 2 continue earnestly in prayer Being vigilant in it with Thanksgiving Meanwhile praying also for us The God would open to us a door for the word To speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains
that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.
Let your speech always be with grace.
Season with salt that you may know how you want to answer each one.
This is the Word of God for the people of God.
Amen.
May God add his blessing to the reading of his words.
You may be seated.
I call this one roots and routes.
Sometimes we say like root 66 or route 66.
Each one is correct.
But the word root in roots and routes is like a tree root.
And the word route could also be pronounced roots.
So it could be called roots and roots.
Or roots and routes, however you want to call it.
But I'm going to use the word route
And sometimes I'm going to tell you this is a root thing, but the root thing is going to be the roots that dig deep, not the road.
I want to talk about community today because it's important to know what that's all about and understand when we're looking at community, how to approach it, what we're thinking about to have the same mindset.
And the verse that
draws my attention to Community is Jeremiah chapter 29 verse 7 This is a period of time in Israel's history where they're in captivity They've been taken into Babylon and God gives them this word it says seek the peace and prosperity of the city where I have sent you pray to the Lord for it and
For in its peace, you will have peace.
Now, I'm going to just unpack that verse a little bit so you understand the dynamic of what's going on.
Israel was overtaken by Babylon.
They took all the things out of the temple.
They took most of the Jewish people out and back to Babylon.
And God had told them if they didn't get their act straight,
This was going to happen.
They didn't get their act straight and it happened.
Now, if they were ever going to be in captivity and you look at the story of the Babylonian captivity, you will see that that captivity is actually not a bad one.
They weren't turned into slaves and taskmasters like some would have.
They actually were allowed
to do some things and have some of their own freedoms.
But what God says in this verse is seek the prosperity of the city where I sent you and it's peace.
And God's saying where I sent you, sometimes we go to a place where we don't want to be and God calls us to a place we don't want to go.
Sometimes it's because we need to be there
Sometimes because we had to be there.
The Israelites went because they had to be there, because they're disobedience.
And so he says, when that happens, no matter where you find yourself, pray for the peace of the place you're at.
Because if that place has prosperity and peace, you will get some of that as well.
So if they're in good fortune, they're not going to be so much worried about whether or not you have good fortune or are not having good fortune because they're going to bless you with their abundance.
And that's why he said that.
And so what happened in this time in their history was when they took into captivity, they left their homeland.
They were transported to another area and this is what they said.
This is your new community.
This is your home.
And for 70 years, it was 70.
So when you're transporting the captivity, you don't know how long you're going to be at a place or a time.
But wherever you are becomes your community.
Now what is community?
That's a word we need to do a little bit on packing on because if you grew up in the 70s, 80s, 90s and heard the word community it means something different than what I'm saying today because back in the 70s we had a guy named Jim Jones and he had a community in Indiana and he went down to South America
and it moved his community there.
And they made the news.
So when you heard about that being a community and you're going, here's some community living opportunities, you're going, I don't know if I want that.
So when I was experiencing all those different things that were happening in a lot of a cult like stuff, when someone said, community's good, I would say, no, it's not.
I had a very negative impact in my mind of the word community.
So when people would say community, I'd say, well, this is all these people invading my space and I don't need them.
But it was such a buzzword.
And I didn't see it as I do now, which is harmonious together and it's working together to help each other for similar cause.
Right now, in my life and time, I love community.
I'm a part of a large community besides our church.
On Friday night, I'm a part of the Celebrate Recovery Community.
My wife and I have been ministry leaders there since 2009.
A lot of our friends, if not most of them, came from that community or are still in that community.
And they help each other and they understand each other because we know each other's stories, because we've been working on stuff to get healthier, mentally, emotionally, physically.
So imagine this.
I asked my wife when I could work on the kitchen floor and dining room floor, which is with travesty from the guy that installed it.
And she said, why don't you do it while I'm on the cruise?
I won't be around and you'll have plenty of time to do it.
So Friday between school routes, I start working on it.
By the time I had to go back to the routes, I realized
I might not get this done by the time she gets home.
So Friday we had celebrate recovery and I'm talking to some guys there about it.
And one guy says, I'll come over and help you.
And I said, really?
He said, yeah, why not?
I'll help you.
My son also said he would help.
So Saturday morning, about 9.13 in the morning, my son comes in and says, let's start on the floor.
I'd already done 10 rows already after turning it out and putting new rows in and we started working on it and we worked on it and I worked on it until I got ready to come to the retirement party and I went back and I worked on it until about midnight.
My son worked the whole time and my friend came around three after he got off work and stayed until midnight as well.
We didn't quite get it done.
Still had 20 pieces left and my friend says
He's from Silver Recovery.
He said, I'm going to come back tomorrow more than 7.30 and finish this out.
And I said, listen, you got churchy going, no, listen.
My buddy has a need.
You've helped me in so many ways to have a better life.
I want to help you.
So he shows up with his family in tow because they're all together, you know, and he starts working on it.
And I said,
I can't help you saying, oh, don't worry, I got this.
And I'm thinking, by the time I get home from church today, I'll still have some more to finish.
And I'm going, I hope not, but we'll see.
On the way here, he texted me three pictures, everything done in a furniture I'll put back in place.
I am humbly grateful by community.
That's community.
That's, I said, thank you.
He said, no, thank you for what you've done to my life.
And I said, well, I'm humbly grateful that you did this because my body would give out.
And so it's done.
And now I can go out and get ready for Christine to come home and do all the things I need to do to prepare for that and not have that in the back of my head.
And I know that when she comes in, she's going to go, thank you.
She won't know how long that took.
And if there's something wrong with it, I'll say yes, I'll see what I can do, but not today.
So that's what I'm saying by community is when you need help, community there to help you to encourage you to support you.
You all know that.
We have senior dinners.
We get together.
Yes, it's retirement.
I get you call it party celebration dinner.
a lunch and supper as much as was there but what I'm saying is we also when there's a funeral we gather together we we are there for each other that's community there's nothing wrong with the community it's good but the problem is is sometimes we don't trust it and I'll start with saying that if you live isolated you won't feel as much community because you won't let people come to help you
or you be closed off, and communities there to support and encourage you, even when you don't want it, because that's what it does.
That's what love does.
In every community, no matter what kind it is, there are two types of residents, two types of people, if you will, those who live in a place and those who live for it.
A person who lives in a place
They build fences.
I live here.
You live over there.
This is me.
I'm my family.
This is us.
You're over there.
You're different.
But those who not just live in it, but live for it, they plant gardens.
They create community gardens too sometimes and they feed others and share their produce with others.
Pat Rogers Sullivan are kind of like that over there in New Liberty.
He has a whole bunch of produce he grows and he gives it away to anybody who wants it and that's community That's what we're talking about how we bless and love each other because we care because we can Some of us though build walls to live our life in isolation when we do that and
We never make a difference or make an impact on the lives around us.
When God puts you in a place, it's not random.
The people you come across are not coincidental.
God is desiring to use you for his purposes.
We are rooted
like a tree in God's presence.
And he also sends us along the routes where we find out where we have our impactful purpose.
We are not just occupants of our community, we are ambassadors.
In other words, if someone says, what kind of community do you live in man?
You got to know.
What kind of churches you got to know.
And let me tell you, because we're ambassadors for what we love.
What we talk about
is what's heavy on our heart, or strong on our heart.
And when we talk about it, like, man, you just got to know how wonderful these people are in this places.
If you ever look online at people exploring places to live, the number one question they ask is, what is the community like?
What's there to do in that community?
What resources are in the community?
They want to know if they're going to feel like they have a place where they can connect.
Connecting is so important.
You're on YouTube.
That's funny.
Our address where we live
is a part of our assignment.
Some folks I know open their home and love people well.
When God told Israel what was going to happen in Babylon in chapter 29 of Jeremiah, they're already in exile when he says these words.
build houses plant gardens multiply there in other words if you can't get out of it get into it go into it go for it don't make excuses live this like it's your home for now because it is and make an impact on how well you serve me there and so wherever we are planted
God expects fruit.
He also told them to pray the Lord for the city.
Now, if you're in captivity or in bondage to somebody and God says pray for them, that's going to come across as difficult if you're not happy about your situation.
But God doesn't say, well, okay,
Since you're not happy about it, you don't have to pray for him.
He doesn't say that.
He says, it doesn't matter what your opinion is about your life circumstances, pray for those around you who are in your community or where you are taking captive.
Pray for him.
You can grow, bloom, and produce fruit wherever you wind up.
It's hard for me to explain in real terms how much of an impact the last year and a half have had on me about community and what it's all about.
But I promise you that it's not lost on me that we together have done a whole lot of things that I never thought I would do or could do.
And I think
Because of that it gives me more confidence to take the risk that God asks us to take to do the things God asks us to do because I know it's not something far-fetched but because we do it together.
It gives you confidence when you know there's people behind you.
It's really difficult when you venture out and you don't have a home base that's safe or someone's saying, I'll be here to help you and encourage you along the way.
It's really important to know that people got your back, that they're in your corner, that they're fighting for you, fighting with you, and helping you to do the things God wants you to do.
I've had to learn that in new ways, from you all.
It's been a wonderful experience.
It's so humbling to me to see the change in my own perspective about community, about mission,
about love, about what needs we need to meet and things like that.
And I never would have anticipated that except for a community of believers who stand with me.
You don't do this alone.
God goes with you.
It's not something where I got this big task and I don't know if I can do it.
God called me to it.
He's going to bring the people and resources to it.
It amazes me how God does that.
But He's so good at it.
And when He puts you in a place, being rooted doesn't mean you stay stuck.
It means you're being steady.
So He told Israel, dig in, be steady in your presence.
Learn again to be obedient to me in adverse situations so I know you really mean it.
Because in your prosperity, you forgot me.
In our prosperity, we forget God.
He gives us adverse situations, so we don't forget Him.
God, I need your help.
When we get it, we go, thank you.
God, I got it now.
And that's not what He wants.
He wants to say, OK, now you're restored.
Now you're prosperous.
Let's see what you can do to bless others with that, to keep growing.
and building out what God has put in.
In Psalm chapter 1 verse 3 it says, a person who, let me describe the context, if you trust in the Lord and His Word and you delight in it, it says this, the one who does that shall be like a tree planted by rivers of water that brings forth its fruit in its season.
That's such a beautiful picture to me of community.
That when you are deeply rooted in God's Word and delight in it, God's going to plant you at a place to continually feed your root system because you're rooted in it and now God's bringing the water to where the roots are.
But at the same time, it's bringing forth fruit which goes out.
I like that image.
And so when we talk about community and a place where we live, there are some of us here who can say, I lived in this community my entire life.
Some of us can say, this is my hometown.
I was a pastor's kid.
I went to college also and
I moved a lot.
So by the time I was 31, I had moved 31 times.
A lot of that was transitioning in college years.
But most of it was from one place to another and not to the same people.
So when I was asked, what's your hometown?
I would have to think about the place that I lived the longest.
Because I said, well, a lot of my friends are from that town.
But I live longer here, and that's where I went to grade school and middle school.
So maybe that's it.
And I would call that my hometown.
But from the very young age till 2009, my parents had a home place in Pope County where they retired to that we would go to frequently.
So then I thought, well, maybe that's my hometown.
If you don't know where you're from and rooted at, people will say, how do you connect?
So I had a lot of short-term friendships.
So learning and having root in the same town at Paducah now for more than any place in my life, I like being rooted.
I like having the same friends and the same people around.
It's very comforting to me to know if there's something I need done, I know who I can call.
In a new place, a new town, you don't know who
like the record service or who you call for information about something, but when you live there a long time, you know.
I like that knowing.
That's what community does for you.
It brings this sense of familiarity which doesn't breed contempt.
It brings gratitude that you know who you can count on.
And people know your character.
If you're new to a community,
And someone says something about you that's not true.
Nobody's going to know if it's true or not.
But if you're from there and you've got a reputation that's strong and solid, praise God.
Why society is changing so rapidly?
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, as we wrestle with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality, your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit riseradio.net today.
One thing we learn about Jesus, and if you've ever done experiencing God, this may sound a little familiar.
In John chapter 5 verse 17, Jesus says, my father has been working until now, and I have been working.
Jesus didn't bring God into the city.
He revealed God's activity that was already there.
Think of it like this.
He looked out across the fields and said to the disciples, the fields are ripe for harvest.
He didn't get that ready.
It was already ready.
So God was doing something to make people ready to be harvest, to be a recipient of the good news.
That's already there.
All we have to do
is be at the right place with the right mindset at the right time and people will receive it.
And those deeds become opportunities and strangers become partners in ministry or otherwise.
And a change in the community around us and influx becomes an opportunity for invitation.
The problem is we can get bogged down in how we're used to seeing things in people.
If you know what I mean by that, it means sometimes we think apple doesn't fall far from the tree, leopard can't change his spots, but I want to tell you something.
God delights in doing the impossible.
He likes showing people the transformation can make in a life that's totally been destroyed to bring a total place of light and salvation.
There is no such thing for God as someone unredeemable.
There is no person that God can't transform.
I know a man who had a reputation because he earned it.
A bad one.
And I invited him to church.
He had never been to church.
He didn't know anything about it.
So we're greeting each other in the church.
And he drops a swear word.
And now he's from that community, right?
So they know his reputation, his story, and they look at it and they go, oh, he just said that word.
Oh, he said that word.
Oh, no, no, no.
And I, and he didn't talk to him about it.
They just said, well, I'll tell you that guy is just as bad as his brother.
So what they said, and I went up to him later privately and I said, listen, in church, I know you never been.
but we drop the four letter words, we come to try to praise God and talk about God.
And God isn't a four letter word descriptor.
But he was talking about praising God, but he threw his swear word in there.
It was the most bizarre thing I've ever experienced.
It was like good bad at the same time.
And so after that he said, thank you.
I didn't know.
I'll work on that.
You see, when God changes you, He changes your language and what you talk about.
And this is God working on this guy.
Nobody else talked to him about it.
They might have said, you ain't supposed to do that.
What's wrong with you?
But they didn't say, hey, let's come alongside you and disciple you and show you how I live out of Christian life.
I did that.
And he was so appreciative of how I talked with him and treated him
that he called me his best friend.
Because I cared, the mission opportunity was right in front of me, and I didn't have the preconceived notions that he was going to stay at the same.
And what's funny, over time, people's perceptions change of who he was.
He became chair of the PPRC.
He became involved in the trustees.
He became involved in the ministries of the church and expanding the ministries.
And on the day when he lost his life, people said, well, we can do without him.
From, oh, he just don't need to be here talking like that to, well, we can do without him.
That's God.
That's what community does.
We get transformed by God in community by people who reflect the love of God to us.
We must move from being a church that meets in the community to a church that moves through the community.
So throughout our days and people we interact with, we're not just a Sunday person.
We also live for God.
and try to disciple every day of the week wherever we found.
I think that makes sense.
Whether it's a workplace, formal workplace, a school, cafe conversations, whatever, wherever you find yourself, those can be sacred routes.
Because you're a regular routine, people know you there.
And the people who know you are the ones who trust you more than those who don't.
And this church and the people here make excellent inroads into the community.
Excellent.
But we can still do better.
And God asks us to continue to be intentional about it.
God gives us roots to stay nourished, but the routes of our lives to stay missional in our focus.
In Acts chapter 8 it says, the believers who were scattered
preached the good news wherever they went.
That means wherever we go is an opportunity.
Every road leading from our church is a route of potential redemption for somebody.
Doesn't matter what direction that road goes.
In other words, we don't have to pick and choose.
Each person needs salvation
And each person at one point in their life or another needs hope or encouragement.
Somewhere along the way.
And if we don't know them, don't have interaction with them, we're not going to know what they need.
So before we can speak into the community, we must serve it first.
That's what I think is so great about our senior dinners.
the Halloween things we do and several other ministries that were involved in we're serving into our community and I believe the community knows who we are and When they think of Palestine United Methodist Church, they think I love that church I Know that church and it's a good Comment that people say if you look at it like this a Good reputation is priceless
a bad reputation will follow you even in transformation.
And this church has an excellent reputation for loving, serving, and get this.
Y'all know this.
Community.
We're all about our community.
That's important to us.
And people know that.
And it's okay to say, we love our community.
I put it on the church sign.
We love our community.
You are our community.
Whoever you is, they are our community.
Whoever passes by that sign, that's our community.
And I think we know that.
And I'm so thankful that I don't have to say, you know, anybody around here should be your community.
You already know.
I don't have to convince you of that.
Thank God.
I don't have to convince you of that because this will take a long time to learn.
So when we
Seek community.
What we're seeking is its peace or its Shalom in Jeremiah 29 7 where it says pray for the peace of the community.
When we see that word peace in that verse, the word is actually Shalom.
Shalom is a word that means wholeness, harmony, rightness, and it's all based in God.
And so when the church
pursues shalom for the community, and we as individuals do, it becomes a prophetic presence, not just preaching salvation, but demonstrating it.
Now when I say prophetic presence, what I mean by that is that when the word is spoken, it isn't necessarily a future-oriented end times, prophecy word like that.
Any time the word of God is shared that gives an impactful message, whether it's for right now, for an encouragement, for healing, restoration, all Scripture is prophetic.
And what that means is it's what God is trying to tell you right now.
And I pray that each time I speak that I've got a
a thumb on the pulse of God and what he's trying to tell us right now.
So a prophetic word can be a teaching word, encouraging word.
It can be challenging.
It can be a it can be a future oriented word or this is what God wants you to do type word but it doesn't have to be but the message is one of those moments where God can meet you and where you are
and speak into your life.
That's a prophetic word.
It's all it is.
I think that's good.
So we know community and we know prophetic word and we know that it's valuable.
So what's next?
How do we put the rubber to the road, the shoulder to the grindstone?
What can we do?
And there's some very simple things that you are probably already doing some of them But you can do it more intentionally and one of them is to pray for our community To pray for them to pray for their peace to pray for their prosperity to pray also that they know who God is That's quite simple and then we can learn the local rhythms and events that are around and be involved in community events even in
ones we don't necessarily want to go to because if people see you consistently at those events, they're going to want to connect and associate with you and then you have opportunity for conversation.
And conversation is exactly how you talk about what matters.
I never saw Jesus in scripture anywhere except on the cross, not speak the message.
He always spoke the message.
So we had to have a way to do that.
We can partner with other folks who are doing stuff that we want to do.
If another organization or a church is doing something, we say, we want to help you.
And we feel like God is asking us to do something.
Then when we go to them and say, hey, would you help us?
They'd say yes, because they know we're in it for the kingdom, not for just us.
so we can line up with people who are doing good.
We can celebrate the things that are impacting that are God-breathed stuff from our area around us.
If someone that we know receives salvation, it's great for the whole community to hear about it.
If someone gets a miracle like Donald, it's great for the whole, we all rejoice together.
That's community.
We are limited only by our willingness to do what it takes.
And that's it.
Got a short story to close with.
I think you'll appreciate this.
She was 84 years old.
I remember church I was passoring.
And she and her friend, Ms. Thomas, you don't know any of them, they're not from around here and they're all deceased many years ago.
And she and Ms. Thomas went together and did everything everywhere.
One came to my church with the methods, Ms. Thomas went to another Methodist church and sometimes a Baptist church.
And they did everything together and one day they got mad and they were angry at each other and they stopped talking.
My eight-year-old four-year-old friend said, yeah, she's not coming here anymore for Bible study or anything.
We're just not talking to each other.
And I said, well, what do you do about that?
She said, well, until she does something I can't because she don't want to talk to me.
And so try and find something you can do to open the door for that conversation.
So get this.
She goes home, thinks about it a while, grabs a plate, serving plate,
Bakes some cookies, puts it on the plate, goes next door, which is where the lady lived, knots on her door, she opens it, the lady won't say where she hands her to play the cookies.
Goes back home.
The next day, they knock on her door.
Same plate, fresh bags of cookies.
They started talking.
And she said, why?
did you make me cookies and bring them to me when I made a bash for you?
She said, well, I ate them and I couldn't return your plate empty.
Hear this, and odds, not getting along.
And there was an act of kindness.
And the other one said, that must be an olive branch or something.
And she brought
a plate back.
And she said, you know, that's what the conversation they have.
And I said, you know, that's amazing.
We did that.
There's some people who are strange from our church.
Maybe we can give them a plate of cookies.
They started getting plates of cookies and saying, here's a plate of cookie for you.
Just want to know you were thinking about it.
Invariably, those folks sent a full plate of cookies back.
This became the ministry and 84 year old woman did.
She started it.
That's community.
That's it.
I'm reaching out.
And I only had to say anything because she wouldn't talk to her anyway.
Just say, here you go.
That's what community is about.
And I believe we are able to do that.
So I leave you with this question.
If somebody's in your path, can you trust that God put them there for a purpose, for a reason?
And can you just do that?
Can you think like that this week that maybe this person's right in my path, not because they're there randomly, because maybe God wants me to step out of my comfort zone and love them.
Would you pray with me?
Heavenly Father, thank you for the opportunities you provide.
Help us to be community minded the way
Community is supposed to be not the way it used to be presented But people loving and encouraging each other that's transformation and I know we each wouldn't hear have a heart for that so help us to See what you're doing Lord to hear it and share with one another the good The good work you want to do the good work you are doing We may bless encourage and resource
And Lord, you might change the world around us that we would have an impact for you.
I pray this in your precious son's name.
Amen.